There is a stark difference between the approaches to climate adaptation by those who are not researchers, scholars or scientists studying climate change. We are referring to the communities who have been living in close proximity to ecological systems, maintaining production landscapes, ground water trackers, cloud spotters, star-storytellers and so on. In this article we will argue for a place-based infrastructuring to foster community-led action research to breakdown the global imagination of climate change. Although in its early stage, our collective insights emerging from the shared experience of setting up a Climate Resource Centre (CRC) for the region of Bidar district in India not only raises critical questions about the current state of Climate research most importantly calls for imagining new collaborative research methods & outputs for more-than-human worlds. One of the intriguing anecdotes we heard from a an elderly farmer who referred to Climate Change as ‘Prakruti Niyama’ (translates as ‘Nature of characteristics/relations) emanates a deeply embedded knowledge about the [[local landscape]], of slowness, of resilience, inter-connections and inter-dependencies. The article will be in the form of dialogue among the transdiciplinary research group which includes farmers (both women & men), elderly residents, local extension work organisations and civic society organisations who are currently engaged in setting up CRC. Our dialogue explores three premises - 1) [[Local descriptions of the agro-climatic conditions]] (co-developing a lexicon) ; 2) [[Intergenerational knowledge system to live with landscape]] (whole is not sum of the parts); and 3) [[Ecological vulnerabilities that are exacerbated due to climate change]] (counter-fragile systems).

A [[choreographed]] dialogue with different actors (human and non-human) for infrastructuring to [[sitiuated]] community-led climate action research.

In this paper we will embedd an method for the readers to interact with this paper beyond just reading and note-taking. We have embedded annotations that ask the readers to make learning artefacts that allow them to get an in-road into the processess and connections that are not apparent while explicitly including scholarship from the communities.
